Good evening, guys.
Evening.
Hello.
Do you choose Mr.
Sturgis all or not yet?
Is there anyone who hasn't sent out?
Maybe two, three minutes ago.
Today's lecture.
Today's the deadline, yeah?
By the way, do we have strict deadlines for homework, guys?
No.
Isn't it that strict?
No, no, no, it's not strict.
But I would suggest to find at least like 10 to 15 minutes every day how I am doing.
Because when it will come at the end, it will be like everything.
So at least I'm just trying to find 10, 15, 20 minutes doing like by small, small, small parts.
Then every day.
Homework from this course or from others?
Any, I think.
Other courses, I think, didn't give you homework yet, yeah?
They give it, they give it.
Data, data processing, they gave, it gave, he gave yesterday, I think, this file format.
I, yesterday, I missed the class yesterday.
I will watch it today.
Hey, guys.
Hello, Italy.
Hello, Italy.
How are you doing?
I have a question about the future.
If you see, two days ago, Google introduced quantum computers.
Yeah.
In our second lesson, you said that there is a problem with the model because they have a resource problem.
And what will be in the future about it?
Because if Google, if we have, they have quantum computers, then they have a huge resource.
And how they will change.
Yeah.
So that's, that's really good.
That's an interesting question.
So I didn't know how they work, like on the very general concept of these qubits.
I still, you know, I've been studying quantum physics in university, like, at least one year, probably two years.
I can't remember.
You know, a lot of electronics works on quantum effects.
So, for example, some, some stuff allows the electrons to jump the barrier.
But they, like, actually cannot jump.
So they, like, tunneling through that.
And no one knows, like, how it works.
But it works.
And we use it in TVs and smartphones.
And that's it.
Like, some kind of, some kind of magic.
So it's still, I think there should be some kind of scientific explanation.
But I didn't know, like, how these quantum computers work.
I don't understand the concept of, like, something having the value of zero and one at the same time.
Because, like, okay, you can imagine that.
But how about the storage, right?
So if you talk about, like, HDD or SSD, any storage, so you need to write it.
And you need to, like, you should be able to read it in the future.
And the most fear, like, two fears I remember, like, from the community regarding quantum computers is, okay, if they are so, like, powerful.
And can make, like, much more, like, I don't know, millions times computations per second.
So what about the encryption, right?
So RSA or any other encryption algorithm.
So basically encryption works, like, modern encryption works on the very basic example.
Like, there are, how it's called, like, one-way function in math.
I don't know how it's in English.
So the way, like, it's very easy to calculate this.
For example, it's very easy to multiply two prime integers and get the result.
But it's super hard to understand, like, what are the integers you multiplied if you received, like, this result.
And a lot of encryption is based on that.
And actually Bitcoin is based on that.
So Bitcoin has several, like, Bitcoin has a lot of protocols inside.
Like, technologies, and most of them are, like, top-tier encryption we have right now.
So if Google can beat that, so they can possibly, like, hijack all the new Bitcoins.
Maybe they can rewrite the whole Bitcoin, like, the whole blockchain, like, in a day.
And, I don't know, like, steal all the Bitcoins from us.
So a lot of, like, military applications, like, all this encryption and networking.
So, I don't know.
It's technically possible that, yeah, such technology can appear.
But taking into account how much time and money and resources and smart people it takes to build such thing.
So maybe the first country which builds it, I don't know, like, will create some kind of, like, snow crash.
Like, from cyberpunk books.
I don't know.
So, we'll see.
At least, like, I know, like, from what I understand, like, IT history and technology history.
Like, all the new, like, top-tier technologies, they have, like, two applications.
Like, the two industries basically driving them fast and, like, making them broadly available is porn industry and military.
So, this is, like, two things usually picking up the latest tech and trying to get, like, money of that.
And maybe one of them will pick it up.
I don't know.
Maybe military first.
So, we're going to see the new applications of quantum stuff.
Yeah, but from personal perspective, like, being a human, like, I don't know, like, IT guy.
So, yeah, that's interesting.
But unless I cannot benefit from that, unless I cannot, like, earn money doing that.
So, it's inevitable for me.
Like, the sun.
The sun just can stop.
I don't know.
Like, okay, bad example because the earth rotates across the sun.
So, the earth can just stop rotating and it will be an infinite night for me.
So, I can't do anything about that.
I can't do anything about rain.
So, what I can do is just to buy the umbrella or, I don't know, pray the rain stops sometime.
And in case I have the problem or something I cannot influence, I think it's good not to worry about it.
Because if you worry about something you cannot change, that's bad.
So, you spent a lot of resources and the result will be nothing, like, for sure.
So, my plan is just read the news, I don't know, follow this agenda, but don't worry about it.
Okay.
Yeah, let's get down to business.
So, let me try to open my schedule.
I had to reboot my PC today, so I lost this Excel spreadsheet.
Okay, this one.
Okay, so, the good news.
Good news, we are on track, right?
And here we are, meeting number five.
So, today we're going to discuss Whisper API and local installation.
The bad news, I took a look at some of the homeworks, like, two or three, maybe five, but not, like, very high level.
I like the blog posts you guys made, so I like the pictures, and I think I will share some of my favorite pictures next time.
So, I assume I will need this weekend to check them and probably to, I don't know, like, set some marks or something like that.
So, just give me some time, but I haven't found any, like, critical problems there.
So, just remember to share the workflow, how you did that, like, for the first task.
So, I need to see, like, what prompts you've been using.
And don't forget about the pictures, so the pictures are necessary for our blog post.
So, I think we're going to focus on that, probably, either on this lecture or this one.
We don't have time to review the homework.
So, today we're going to discuss the Whisper API, and this is very, let me show the slides.
So, here are the slides for today.
So, what is the Whisper, and why are we discussing that?
So, mostly when people discuss the generative AI or AI in general, so they focus on, like, LLMs, I don't know, like, compilers, functions, and stuff like that.
So, everything that works with text, right, because it has more application to the business when you work with text.
But still, usually what is being forgotten is images and audio processing.
And regarding the images, I can't say it's, like, easier to monetize this, so not too much business applications.
So, I know a lot of cases where clients came to us, like, to EPAM and asked to create something.
Like, I don't know, maybe I read over a hundred of cases.
And only several of them were related to image generation.
But some of them, like, more of these cases are related to audio.
One of the usual, like, requests is, okay, guys, we have 5,000 hours of recordings of, I don't know, meetings or customers calling us for the support.
So, we need to understand this data, right?
So, imagine you have a first-line support, like, people calling, like, real users calling, describing the issue, and the operators are just sharing.
So, what should you do to solve it?
And you need to control it somehow, right?
So, you need to see what are the most popular questions or what are the answers.
So, is the client happy or not, right?
And for this case, you need to voice processing.
Processing the voice is actually very old technology.
I don't remember how old it is, but, like, two things here usually working is text-to-speech and speech-to-text.
And if we check, I don't know, like, let's check Azure text-to-speech.
Okay, it's AI speech now.
All right, I got it.
Everything is AI now.
Let me check the pricing, actually.
DTS pricing.
It's super cheap.
It's super cheap.
Okay, I think here.
So, this is, okay, free tier, all right.
All right, delete this one.
So, speech-to-text.
So, in order to transcript something, like, if you have a phone call, real-time transcription, $1 per hour, that's too much.
Okay, batch transcription.
So, if I have a lot of audio calls, I don't know, like, 100, I can post them as a batch, and this will result in 80 cents per hour.
So, not too much, actually.
Yeah, as usually, like, Microsoft has, like, very complicated stuff for billing, so it's hard to understand how much you will spend.
Yeah, and here is, like, the text-to-speech.
So, basically, two directions.
Like, from speech, you can extract text, and from text, you can generate speech, right?
And this is, like, the standard voice.
I think this standard voice become neural, like, during, like, last year, because previously, they had different, they had a different pricing.
So, like, the standard voice is, like, this robotized voice you usually hear when you call a bank or something, and neural voice is, like, more pleasant, more realistically, more naturally toned.
So, right now, I don't think, they should have some kind of, like, cheap voice, like this old cheap voice.
Probably, it's inside the Azure AI studio, but the check is not expensive, right?
So, one million characters is, like, it's a lot.
$15 for business, it's, like, well, not too much, I think.
So, and in case we have 1,000 of, like, phone calls transcripted, so it will result as only, like, less than $200.
That's acceptable for that.
And they definitely use machine learning there, right?
So, because there's no way programmatically, like, algorithmically to transcribe the speech.
But still, the interesting thing here is it's also possible to use machine learning techniques and all this concept of token we've been discussing previously, right?
In working with speech and understanding the speech.
And the project, the project I would like to show you, this Whisper, so let me find, it should be here in the notes I put.
Yeah, this one.
It was introduced very similar once the chat GPT arrived, right?
So, I'm just trying to recognize, what was the time when chat GPT released?
Okay, chat GPT released.
Okay, November 30, all right, 2022.
Yeah, so they introduced Whisper, like, a couple of months before chat GPT.
And to know what happens, like, do you remember this movie, 13th Floor?
This one.
So, do you know this movie, 13th Floor?
It's kind of popular from scientific perspective, but they got the problem, right?
So, this is the cyber, like, not so cyberpunk, but probably, like, interesting science fiction.
But take a look at the release year, it's 1999.
The problem is that in 1999, this movie gets out, Matrix.
And that's why, like, everyone knows about the Matrix.
It was, like, a very successful movie.
And this is the reason much more less people know that this movie, 13th Floor, even exists.
If they release it, like, a year previous, before Matrix, so much more success.
So, the same as Whisper, right?
So, chat GPT release, November 13, and Whisper, actually the same company, OpenVA, but it was not so hyped in September as it become in November, right?
So, what they introduced is they actually have been working, like, at the same time, looks like they've been working at the Whisper in parallel, like, working with Shazoo PC, right?
So, they reused the same, like, not the same, but similar architecture, like, encoders, decoders, and tokens to predict the tokens, but not from text, but from audio as well.
So, they just take a look at the audio, right?
And in the paper, so they share, like...